Dance is when people move to a musical rhythm. They may be alone, or in a group. The dance may be an informal play, a part of a ritual, or a part of a professional performance. There are many kinds of dances, and every human society has its own dances.
Dancing is not a sport, though it does have some athletic aspects. Dance is an art. Some people dance to express their feelings and emotions. Other people dance to feel better. Dance can be used to tell a story. In some societies, dance goes with song as well as music. People who want to learn to dance can go to dance schools. It may take years of practice to become an experienced and flexible dancer.
To plan a dance is called choreography, done by a choreographer. Often this goes with music, and fits into a certain style. Dances may be planned in detail, or they may be whatever dancers feel like doing. However, most dancing does follow some general style or pattern. One style is the couple dance, where (usually) a man and a woman dance together. Other dances need a whole group of people together to make it work.
People have always danced. Every society has its own dances. There are pictures, on pottery and stone, which show dances from several thousand years ago, in Egypt and Greece.
Sachs divides early dances into 'Imageless dances’ and 'Image dances’. By 'imageless dances’ he meant dances which have no set form, but aim at getting the dancers into a state of ecstasy. In this state the dancer(s) seem changed, in a trance, and are often thought of (by their society) as being 'possessed by spirits'. These dances are done on certain occasions: marriage, war, famine, illness or death, and so on. They are found in all early ('primitive') societies.
The 'image dances’, according to Sachs, are to do with the world outside the dancer. By imitating an animal or object, the dancer believes he can capture a power and make it useful. To dance in imitation of the animal which is going to be hunted is to become one with them. To imitate the act of sex is to achieve fertility. This is the kind of thinking behind an image dance. Sachs points out that societies of this kind do not really understand the connection between cause and effect. They really believe the image dances work. The dance type which is used in image dances is mime.
The two styles of dance may be joined together. Fertility dances may involve both ecstatic states and mime. The great dancer Nijinsky used some of these ideas in his choreography for the ballet Le Sacre du Printemps (The Rite of Spring), a ballet about the sacrifice of a girl during a primitive celebration of Spring.
Coming to more recent times, the first dance school we know about was opened in 1661 in Paris. Only men were accepted until 1681. After 1681, women were accepted too. Ballroom dances are forms of modern dance. Ballroom dances such as the waltz are done by couples.
Until the 20th century, most ballroom dances were sequence dances. The way people moved was planned in set formation. These formations were usually lines or squares. Everyone moved at the same time, and finished at the same time. The music played for a set time, and then stopped. After the invention of the waltz, around 1800, another style of dancing developed. In the waltz, and later dances, people danced in couples, but they did so separately. They did not dance in formation, but moved round the room as they pleased (but anti-clockwise). Often, new dance styles arrive. Some dance as individuals, separately, as they please. Street dance is like that. All these types of dance have music.
At the same time, round the world there are many traditional dances. Some of them have been going for hundreds of years. We call them folkloric dances.
The coming of popular music videos and DVDs led to a kind of dancer previously seen in some stage shows. A backup dancer (or background dancer) is a performer who dances with or behind the lead performers in a live musical act or in a music video.
There are many different styles of dance, which fall into these general types.

Ballet is a type of dance. It is only done by dancers who have had special training. The dancers are employed by a dance company, and they perform in theatres. The first reference to ballet is found in a work of Domenico da Piacenza, who lived in the early 14th century.

Ballet involves the creation of the dance itself, often a type of imaginary story.The story is told with the help of dance and mime. Ballet is a form of expression. It presents a story in a new form to the audience. The creation of dance is called choreography. The choreography is learnt by the dancers under the supervision of a trainer, called a ballet master or mistress. Ballet is always performed to music, and in many cases the music was specially composed for a particular ballet. Ballet is a major part of theatre, and a popular example is The Nutcracker.

Ballet grew out of Renaissance spectacles which, rather like big pop music events today, used every type of performance art. These Italian ballets were further developed in France. Le Ballet Comique de la Reine (The Queen's Ballet Comedy) was performed in Paris in 1581. It was staged by Balthazar de Beaujoyeux, a violinist and dancing master at the court of Catherine de Medici. It was danced by amateurs in a hall. The royal family were watching at one end and the others in galleries on three sides. Poetry and songs came with the dances.

The basis of classical ballet was formed in the Court of Louis XIV in France, in the 17th century. Even his title (the 'Sun King') came from a role he danced in a ballet. Louis founded the first ballet company, the Ballet de l'Opera de Paris. Many of the ballets presented at his court were created by the composer Jean-Baptiste Lully and the choreographer Pierre Beauchamp. Also during this time, the playwright Molière invented the comedie-ballet.

In the early 19th century ballet technique was codified (sorted out and written down) by Carlo Blasis (1797–1878) of Naples. His dance classes, four hours long, were famous for being the toughest training there was at that time. 'Romantic ballet' flourished in France in the first half of the 19th century.

Ballet with a more athletic style was developed in Imperial Russia of the late 19th century. This company performed in the Mariinsky Theatre at St. Petersburg. The three famous Tchaikovsky ballets, Swan Lake, The Sleeping Beauty, and The Nutcracker, date from that time. The next stage was the Diaghilev ballet. Diageilev was a great impresario (showman). In 1909 he founded Les Ballets Russes de Sergei Diaghilev, considered by many to be the greatest ballet company of all time.

"Its success was so extraordinary, its ballets so revolutionary, and its artists so electrifying that its appearance in Paris before the First World War sparked an international ballet boom".
His dancers included the legendary Nijinsky and the Imperial primaballerina Karsavina; also Pavlova, Danilova and Spessivtseva. His choreographers included Fokine, Massine and Balanchine; his composers included Stravinsky, Prokofiev, Ravel and Debussy; his set designers included Picasso, Cezanne, Matisse, Utrillo, Bakst and Braque; and the ballets created changed the course of ballet history.

Later in the 20th century, permanent ballet companies were set up in English-speaking countries. The Royal Ballet in London was started, and in New York a company called the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo was founded (1938–1962).

Technique is the physical ability to perform whatever steps a dance may need. Specific methods for refining technique are named after the ballet master or mistress who started them, such as the Vaganova method after Agrippina Vaganova, the Balanchine method after George Balanchine, and the Cecchetti method after Enrico Cecchetti.

Modern Dance is related to ballet, but aims at different types of performance, instead of the classical ballets. Many of its dancers have been trained in ballet, and modern dance companies are rather similar to ballet companies.

The phrase 'Modern dance' is also applied to Ballroom dance of the English (now 'International') style. However, this page uses Modern dance as a term to describe 20th century concert dance, on stage. The modern dance style does not have set rules. Modern dancers often create their own dance routines using their emotions and moods, but on the other hand, many performances are choreographed.

Modern dancers prefer a more relaxed and free style of dancing. While ballerinas try to be light on their feet, modern dancers use body weight to increase movement.

Also modern dancing does not require specific costumes. So modern dancers often dance barefoot and choose whatever they want to wear. Modern dancers try to show their innermost emotions through dancing, often trying to get closer to their inner-selves. This is why many modern dancers choose a subject that is close to their hearts and attempts to express the subject to the audience.

Modern Dance was developed in the 20th century, mainly in the United States and Germany. In the early 1900s, several female dancers began rebelling against the strict rules of classical ballet. The pioneers of Modern Dance in the United States were Isadora Duncan, Loie Fuller, Ruth St. Denis and Martha Graham. The pioneers of Germany were Rudolf Von Laban and Mary Wigman.

Loie Fuller (1862–1928) was a burlesque skirt dancer. She began experimenting with the effect that gas lighting had on her silk costumes. Fuller developed a form of natural movement and improvisation techniques that were used in conjunction with her revolutionary lighting equipment and translucent silk costumes. She patented her apparatus and methods of stage lighting that included the use of coloured gels and burning chemicals for luminescence, and also patented her voluminous silk stage costumes.
Isadora Duncan (1877–1927) was an original dancer and an extraordinary personality. She invented a dance style based on natural flowing motions and flowing silk dresses and scarves. She strongly criticised ballet as unnatural, and insisted on complete freedom for herself. This included public drunkenness, love affairs with both men and women, and a flirtation with communism. Both she and her first two children died in freak accidents involving cars. The children died when their chauffer got out of the car to hand-crank the engine, but forgot the brake. The car, with the children inside, slipped backwards into the Seine. She herself died when her famous scarf got wrapped round the wheel of a moving car.
Martha Graham (1894–1991) was an American modern dancer and choreographer. Her influence on dance has been compared with the influence Picasso had on modern visual arts, Stravinsky had on music, or Frank Lloyd Wright had on architecture. She danced and choreographed for over seventy years. She choreographed about 100 works.
Katherine Dunham (1909–2006) was an African American dancer and anthropologist. Originally a ballet dancer, she founded her first company Ballet Negre in 1936 and later the Katherine Dunham Dance Company based in Chicago, Illinois. Dunham opened a school in New York (1945) where she taught Katherine Dunham Technique, a blend of African and Caribbean movement (flexible torso and spine, articulated pelvis and isolation of the limbs and polyrhythmic movement) integrated with techniques of ballet and modern dance.
Merce Cunningham (1919–2009) was a former ballet student and performer with Martha Graham. He presented his first New York solo concert with John Cage in 1944. Influenced by Cage and embracing modernist ideology using postmodern processes, Cunningham introduced chance procedures and pure movement to choreography and Cunningham technique to the book of 20th century dance techniques. Cunningham set the seeds for postmodern dance with his abstract work. In these works each element is expressive, and the viewer decides what it means. Cunnimgham choreographed nearly 200 works for his dance company.

A belly dance is a Middle Eastern type of dancing. In the Arabic language, it is called raqs sharqi  (which means "oriental dance"). Many boys and girls in countries where belly dancing is popular will learn how to do it when they are young. The dance involves movement of many different parts of the body; usually in a circular way.

The term "Belly dance" is translated from the French "danse du ventre". However, this dance is done by every part of the body. The most featured body part usually is the hips. Belly dancing is very different depending on country and region, both in costume and dance style.

Belly dancing came from the dances performed in the Middle East and North Africa. One theory is that belly dance may have come from Arab, a dance when the Arabians were worshipping a goddess. A third theory is that belly dance was always danced just for entertainment.

Another theory is that belly dance was originally danced by women for women in the Levant, and North Africa.

Jazz dance is a dance genre which is easy to recognise, but not easy to define. It is, like some other forms of dance and music, an African influence in western culture.

"[Jazz dance was] developed by African Americans in the first part of the twentieth century".
Its origins were in social dancing to the music of jazz, but it developed into a type of stage dancing.

Today, jazz dance is taught to students of stage dancing. The ISTD (Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing) lists jazz dance under 'Modern Theatre', and the IDTA (International Dance Teachers Association) lists it in their 'Theatre Branch'. Professional stage dancers are certain to have some kind of jazz dance training.

Modern ballet has also been influenced by jazz dance. Balanchine's ballet Slaughter on Tenth Avenue was the climax of the Broadway musical On Your Toes (1936), Kathleen Dunham and Bob Fosse were famous jazz dancers and choreographers.

Tap dancing is a type of dance. Its main feature is the sound made by tap shoes hitting the floor. Tap dancers wear special shoes with metal pieces on the bottom. There is one metal piece at the toe, and another at the heel.

There are two main types of tap dance: rhythm (Jazz) tap and Broadway tap. Broadway tap is more about the dance. It is often done in musical theater. Rhythm tap is more about the sound of the tapping.

In tap dancing dancers use their shoes to tap the floor like drummers. Tap shoes have metal taps on the bottom of the shoe to make a sound. The sound you get from the tap shoe depends on how hard you hit the floor, and what part of your foot you use.

Ballroom dance is the name for a number of dances done in ballrooms. It usually means pairs (mostly a man and woman) dancing separately from other pairs. The most important difference in style is between the modern or standard dances and the Latin dances. The modern dances are the waltz, quickstep, foxtrot, tango and Viennese waltz. The Latin dances are the cha-cha-cha, samba, rumba, paso doble and jive. However, there are also sequence dances, where dancers move together in a pre-set pattern.

All these dances can be danced socially, more or less any way people want to. As competition dances, they are organised under the rule of the World Dance Council. These competitions are danced in the International style; the techniques were developed by English dancers in the 20th century. All major international competitions are conducted within detailed regulations. There are other systems of dance regulated by national bodies. American style is one; Scottish dancing is another; Greek classical dance is another.

Although the most famous dancers were Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, they did not dance in ballrooms. Their career together was entirely on film. Astaire danced also on the stage, and on television. The most famous American pair of ballroom dancers was Vernon and Irene Castle, who were national figures until Vernon's death in 1918. Later, Arthur Murray's chain of dance schools taught many Americans to dance. The most famous English ballroom dancer was probably Victor Silvester, who was a professional dancer and a very successful bandleader.

There are ten international style ballroom dances, five standard (or modern) and five Latin:

Standard: Waltz, Quickstep, Tango, Foxtrot, Viennese waltz
Latin: Cha-cha-cha, Rumba, Samba, Jive, Paso doble
Most of these are dances that started in other places, but were developed in their modern form by English dancers and dance teachers.

Most people do these dances for fun. When people compete against each other, the women wear formal dresses (gowns) for standard competition and short skirts for Latin. Men wear formal evening wear ('white tie and tails') for standard and informal shirts for Latin.

Some people earn medals to show how they are improving. They dance in front of a judge to earn a medal at the Bronze, Silver, or Gold levels. Ballroom dance teaching and medal awards is done by Dance Teacher organisations, such as the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing (ISTD) or the International Dance Teachers Association (IDTA). These organisations also do ballet, stage dancing (or 'theatre dance' or 'jazz dance') and several other types of dance. Their qualifications and exams are held world-wide, even though they are English in origin. Street dance, as the name suggests, does not need a ballroom. Nevertheless, it is being taught in ballrooms, as are some other kinds of non-traditional dance.

There are also some line dances, in which people dance as a group instead of with a partner. Some line dances are done to Mambo, Waltz, Paso Doble, and Samba.

Some people dance in couples, but also as a group, with everyone doing the same steps. This is called formation dancing.

People compete at many levels, but the basic division is between amateurs and professionals. Then, amongst amateurs, there are age grades (British regulations):

In the USA, competitions may be divided according to dancing ability: Newcomer, Pre-Bronze, Bronze, Silver, Gold, Pre-Championship, and Championship.

The best-known competition is the Blackpool Dance Festival, England. This has been going annually since 1920 (except for war years), and its events, like most English events, are open to the world.

American style ballroom dancing is sometimes called Social style. It includes smooth and rhythm dances:



The Waltz is one of the five international ballroom dances in the Modern or Standard style. It is danced socially, and in ballroom competitions. Like its older brother, the Viennese waltz, this dance originated in Vienna, but was greatly modified by English dance teachers in the 1920s. That is why it is sometimes called the English waltz. Other names are the diagonal waltz, the international waltz, and the slow waltz.

Music for the waltz should be in 3/4 time, and played at 29 to 34 bars per minute. The accent is on the first beat of each bar. For beginners it is a simple dance compared to some others. At competitive level it is much more demanding. It features whisks, chassés, spins, hesitations, drags, and split-beat steps, many of which have been copied in other dances. The first 'advanced' figure to be invented was the double reverse spin, by Maxwell Stewart in the 1924 World Championship. Nowadays it is taught at the silver medal stage.




The Foxtrot, or Slow foxtrot, is an English ballroom dance which developed from American band music. It is now one of the international standard ballroom dances. All ballroom dance competitions controlled by the World Dance Council include the Foxtrot.

All the standard ballroom dances had their origins abroad, but were adapted and modified by English dancers into their modern style. The Waltz came from Germany around 1810. The Tango came from Argentina. The Foxtrot and Quickstep were greatly influenced by American music.

An American dance called the Boston arrived in England about 1903. This had fairly slow, gliding steps. It is a characteristic of the Foxtrot that in the basic steps, unlike the other dances, the feet slide past each other rather than coming together. The Boston seems to have been the first dance to move the feet in this way. The Boston also was the first ballroom dance to be done with feet parallel (rather than turned out, as in ballet).

"The Boston, surely, was the first true example of the smooth flow and natural walking movement of this form".5
The Boston, like much else, was finished off by the First World War. Crowded dance floors in wartime left no room for it, and new musical imports arrived from America.



Ragtime and jazz came to Europe, and were great sensations. Both the music, and the many 'craze' dances contributed. After the war the big bands of Paul Whiteman took centre stage. He played 'arranger's jazz', meaning, the band played from charts rather than by ear. Whiteman's bands were hugely successful (there were several).

"The decade between 1910 and 1920", said one writer, "was the period in which America went dance mad".9 "From 1912 through 1914", said another, "over one hundred new dances found their way in and out of our fashionable ballrooms". These are a few examples: The Shimmy, The Grind, The Turkey Trot, The Bunny Hug, The Texas Tommy, The Cakewalk... Almost all these dances originated in the black community in the United States, and some moved over into white society.

During the 1920s, English professional dancers and dance teachers set out to find ways of dancing to the new music. In their opinion, what was needed was separate dances for different tempos. So what happened was that the Foxtrot, which had started off as a mid-tempo dance influenced by ragtime, gradually split into two dances, a Slow foxtrot and a quick foxtrot. The difference in tempo allowed the dances to become, in time, different in style as well as music. The Quickstep (as it was soon called) was influenced by the Charleston, and the Slow foxtrot by ideas from the Boston. The syncopation which is still common in the quickstep is an example of ragtime influence on modern dancing.

Where did the name 'foxtrot' come from? It is often said that Foxtrot took its name from its inventor, the vaudeville actor Harry Fox; however the exact origins are not clear. The dance was premiered in 1914, quickly catching the eye of the talented husband and wife duo Vernon and Irene Castle, who lent the dance its signature grace and style.

W.C. Handy's Memphis Blues was said to be the inspiration for the Foxtrot. The Castles' music director would play the Memphis Blues during breaks from the fast paced Castle Walk and One-step. The Castles were intrigued by the rhythm. They introduced the 'Bunny Hug' in a magazine article. They went abroad and in mid-ocean sent a wireless to the magazine to change the Bunny Hug to the ‘Foxtrot'.6

The Tango is a dance which was created in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The musical style that was created with the dance is also called 'tango'. It is danced today in two versions. Neither version is 'better' than the other; they are rather different in style.

The first tango dances and music was called tango criollo, or simply tango. Today, there are various tango dance styles, including Argentine tango, Uruguayan tango and vintage tangos. The Argentine tango is probably closer to that originally danced in Argentina and Uruguay, though no details survive of its original form.

The tango is a standard dance in international ballroom dancing. This version was developed in England before WWII, mainly as a result of the work of Monsieur Pierre, a French dance teacher who lived in London.

The Tango is now danced in international competitions to a style first set out in English ballroom texts and regulations.

The Quickstep is an International Style ballroom dance that follows a 4/4 time beat, at about 50 bars per minute. From its early beginning as a faster Foxtrot, the Quickstep has become quite different. It is danced to the fastest tempo of the ballroom dances.

The Quickstep developed in the 1920s from a combination of the Foxtrot, the Charleston, and other dances. The dance is English in origin, and was standardized in 1927. Although it came from the Foxtrot, the Quickstep now is quite separate. Unlike the modern Foxtrot, the feet often close and syncopated (split-beat) steps occur often. Three characteristic dance figures of the Quickstep are the chassés, where the feet come together, the quarter turns, and the lock step.6

This dance became a very dynamic one with a lot of movement on the dance floor, with many advanced patterns including hops, runs, quick steps with a lot of momentum, and rotation. The tempo of Quickstep dance is rather brisk as it was developed to ragtime era jazz music which was fast-paced compared to other dance music.

Today the complexity of Quickstep as done by competition dancers has increased. They use more syncopated steps. While in older times quickstep patterns were counted with "quick" (one beat) and "slow" (two beats) steps, many advanced patterns today are cued with split beats, such as "quick-and-quick-and-quick, quick, slow", with there being further steps on the ‘and's.

A Viennese waltz (Valse in French, Walzer in German) is a music and dance which started in Vienna in the late 18th century. It is a ballroom dance in 3/4 time. It is the most famous of all dance forms. It became extremely popular during the 19th century, and is still danced today. Many famous composers wrote waltzes for piano or for orchestra. The rhythm of the waltz can be heard in lots of music, not just in pieces which are called a ‘waltz'.

It is difficult to know exactly when the waltz started. The word comes from a German word “walzen” which means “to turn”. This is because the dancers turn around as they spin round the dance floor. There were German dances called Ländler which were simpler than the minuet and popular amongst ordinary people. The waltz developed from these dances. Schubert wrote many pieces called 'Ländler'. He also started to use the title 'Waltz'. Beethoven wrote 30 variations on a waltz that had been composed by Anton Diabelli.

Many people thought that the new dance was bad. This was because the dancing couples stood very close to one another and held one another in their arms (in the old minuet they held hands politely). Some people thought that it was very immoral and wrote angry letters to the newspapers saying that it was the end of civilised society. However, the waltz continued to be popular, and many dance halls were opened where people could waltz.



Composers became interested in the music of the waltz. Weber wrote a piece called 'Invitation to the Dance'. It has a main tune, then a set of variations, and at the end it comes back to the first tune. This form became a common way of writing a group of waltzes. Two composers in Vienna who became well known for their waltzes were Joseph Lanner (1801–1843) and Johann Strauss (1804–1849), but the most famous of all was one of Strauss’s sons, also called Johann. Father and son are sometimes called Johann Strauss I and Johann Strauss II. The son is often called the 'King of the Waltz'. He wrote many waltzes which are still very popular today. On New Year’s Day the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra always give a concert which can be seen worldwide on television. They play lots of Strauss waltzes. The most famous one is called 'The Blue Danube' (German: 'An den schönen, blauen Donau').

In the Romantic period there was hardly a composer who was not influenced by the waltz. Chopin wrote about 15 piano waltzes, some of them are very fast, some are slower and more melancholy (sad). Brahms wrote 16 waltzes for piano duet. Many composers wrote waltzes in their operas, especially when the story is about people dancing at a party. The waltz was used a lot in operettas and ballets. Tchaikovsky wrote lots of waltz music in Swan Lake, Sleeping Beauty and The Nutcracker. Even Wagner, whose music is mostly very serious, wrote a waltz in his opera Parsifal . The rhythm of the waltz can be heard in a lot of orchestral music, e.g. Berlioz’s Symphonie Fantastique. The great composers Anton Bruckner and Gustav Mahler preferred to use the old German Ländler in their symphonies.



Although the 19th century was the greatest period of the waltz, people continued to write and dance waltzes in the 20th century. In his opera Der Rosenkavalier (1909) the German composer Richard Strauss (no relation of Johann Strauss) the story is about Vienna in the old days, and so he uses the waltz to create the feeling of a time that was past. The waltz continued to be used in a lot of operettas, e.g. by Franz Léhar in The Merry Widow . The French composer Maurice Ravel wrote waltzes, including a brilliant piece for orchestra which was simply called La Valse. Like Richard Strauss in Der Rosenkavalier, Ravel was trying to describe the music of a century ago. La Valse is a piece which lasts about 20 minutes in one continuous movement. Lots of different instruments have a share in playing many different tunes.



The Viennese waltz is one of the five dances in international ballroom dance. It is the only one not invented in the early 20th century. It is the only one where the figures which competitors dance is restricted. Only nine figures are permitted by the World Dance Council.

Thus in this dance marking is influenced entirely by the actual dancing, and the value of choreography is almost nil.

Cha-cha-cha is the name of a Latin American music and dance, of Cuban origin. It is dance music introduced by Cuban composer and violinist Enrique Jorrín in 1953. The rhythm was developed from a previous dance, the danzón, by a split fourth beat. The name is derived from the shuffling of the dancers' feet.

Many consider the Orquesta Aragón and the orchestra of José Fajardo to have been particularly influential in the development of the cha-cha-cha. Outside Cuba, the big bands of Tito Puente (in New York), and Pérez Prado (in Mexico City and California) introduced the Cha-cha-cha to a much wider audience.
Musically, the Cha-cha-cha was perhaps not a great innovation. However, it became hugely popular because people found it easy to dance to. Monsieur Pierre and his colleagues went to Cuba in the early 1950s to study it. They came back to London and codified the dance (sorted it out and wrote it down). It became a standard dance in Latin American ballroom dancing. It is one of the five Latin dances in international competitions governed by the World Dance Council. Today it is still popular as a dance, and is still danced in Cuba.

Jive is a dance, one of the five International Latin ballroom dances. It originated in the United States from African-Americans in the early 1940s. It is a lively and uninhibited variation of the earlier forms of Swing dance such as the Jitterbug.

Jive is danced in 4/4 time, and in competition at a speed of 44 bars per minute. It differs from Rock 'n Roll (dance) in having a syncopated chassé. Steps are counted 1, 2, 3 & 4, with 3 & 4 as the chassé.

American soldiers brought Lindy Hop/Jitterbug to Europe around 1942, where this dance quickly became popular among the young. In the United States the term 'Swing' became the most common word used to describe the dance. In the UK variations in technique led to styles such as Boogie-Woogie and Swing Boogie, with 'Jive' gradually emerging as the generic term.

After the war, the boogie became the dominant form for popular music. It was, however, never far from criticism as a foreign, vulgar dance. The famous ballroom dancing guru, Alex Moore, said that he had "never seen anything uglier". English instructors developed the elegant and lively ballroom Jive, danced to slightly slower music. In 1968 it was adopted as the fifth Latin dance in International competitions. The modern form of ballroom jive in the 1990s-present, is a very happy and boppy dance, the lifting of knees and the bending or rocking of the hips often occurs.

The basic step (Jive Basic) is a six beat pattern, comprising eight weight changes.

The Paso doble is a dance and music based on the Spanish bullfight. It is the music played at bullfights at the procession of the bullfighters, between stages, and at the end of each session. The dance is based on the way matadors perform in the ring.In the dance, the man takes the part of the matador, and the woman takes the part of the man's cape (not the bull!). The man's stance (the way he stands) should be proud, and when he has a free arm it should be held slightly bent, rather as matadors do. The photograph of the ice dancers gives a perfect example of what dancers should aim for in this style.

The paso doble is one of the five International Latin ballroom dances. It gives a very good contrast in style with the four other dances. Although so Spanish in style and origin, the dance techniques were first developed in Paris. Later, in mid 20th century London, the Latin and American dances took on their present form.


The music is scored in 2/4 time. It is a march-like type of music, and as a dance it is a two-step (paso doble = two-step). It is played at about 60/62 bars (measures) a minute for dancers.

The most famous piece of paso doble music is the España Cañí or Spanish Gypsy Dance. A sample of La Gracia de Dios gives an idea of the rhythm.

Samba is a kind of music, dancing, and singing, originally from Brazil. It began as a music/dance movement in the 1920s.
Samba is a lively, rhythmical dance of Brazilian origin in 2/4 time. In ballroom dance there are three steps to every bar, making the samba feel something like a 3/4 timed dance. The timing is one, a-two, with the values about one beat, 1/4 beat, 3/4 beat.

There are two main types of samba that differ from each other: the modern ballroom samba, and the traditional samba of Brazil. Traditional Brazilian samba includes the samba which is danced solo at Carnival. In that case, the dancers take just one step on each beat.

The ballroom samba has its origins in Brazil at the beginning of the 20th century. Many steps can be traced back to the Maxixe danced in 1910s. A book published in France in 1928 already described how to perform the samba. The modern ballroom dance was created in England, mostly with steps adapted from those seen in Brazil. This version is now danced all over the world in international competitive dancing as regulated by the World Dance Council.

Ballroom samba, like other ballroom dances, is a form adapted for its suitability as a partner dance. The dance movements, which do not change depending on the style of samba music being played, borrows some movements from Afro-Brazilian traditional dances such those used in candomblé rituals.

The ballroom samba is danced to music in 2/4 time. The basic movements are counted either 1-2 or 1-a-2, and are danced with a slight bouncing action. This action is created through the bending and straightening of the knees, with bending occurring on the beats of 1 and 2, and the straightening occurring on the "a". Samba is notable for its constantly changing rhythms however, with cross-rhythms being a common feature. Thus, common step values (in beats are):

The following applies to the type of samba done during street carnivals where the musicians will move along with the dancers, sometimes on foot, sometimes on a motorized 'float' or platform.

The music is played with different instruments – bass drums (a surdo drum, used for keeping a steady beat), snare drums, a whistle (called an apito [a-peet-oh], used for beginning and ending sections of music), other types of untuned percussion, and different varieties of bells.

Other sections are when the apito blasts one rhythm, and all other instruments respond using another rhythm (that lasts the same amount of time as the first), named a call and response section; and a Samba piece can have instrument solos, when one instrument is playing an exciting rhythm. The apito caller signals the end of one section and the beginning of the next by blasting a short call. Pieces always have clear beginnings and ends.

Ballroom sambas are usually played by standard ballroom dance bands with one or two extra percussion instruments.

Rumba is a music and dance term with two different meanings.

First, it means Cuban event of African style, the rumba genre of Afro-Cuban music. This use of the term 'rumba' is quite different from the Latin ballroom dance.

Second, it refers to one of the Latin ballroom dances. In this sense, the Rumba is the slowest of the five competitive International Latin dances. The Paso doble, the Samba, the Cha-cha-cha and the Jive are the others. This ballroom Rumba was also danced in Cuba to a rhythm they call the bolero-son. The international style was derived from studies of dance in Cuba in the pre-revolutionary period.

The Peanut Vendor was the first recording of Cuban music to become an international hit. It was described on the label as a rumba, perhaps because the word son would not be understood in English. The label stuck, and a 'rumba craze' developed through the 1930s. This kind of rumba was introduced into dance salons in America and Europe in the 1930s, and was characterized by variable tempo, sometimes nearly twice as fast as the modern ballroom Rumba.

The modern style of dancing the Rumba derives from studies made by dance teacher Monsieur Pierre (Pierre Zurcher-Margolle). Pierre, then from London, visited Cuba in 1947, 1951 and 1953 to find out how and what Cubans were dancing at the time.Intro

The international ballroom Rumba is a slower dance of about 120 beats per minute which corresponds, both in music and in dance to what the Cubans of an older generation called the bolero-son. It is easy to see why, for ease of reference and for marketing, rumba is a better name, however inaccurate. It is the same kind of reason that led later on to the use of salsa as an overall term for popular music of Cuban origin.

All social dances in Cuba involve a hip-sway over the standing leg and, though this is hardly noticeable in fast salsa, it is more pronounced in the slow ballroom rumba. Walter Laird put it like this:

[After taking a step to the side] "Transfer full weight to this foot allowing the pelvis to move sideways and back so that the weight is felt to be near the heel of the standing foot. The knee of the supporting leg is locked back".p9
In general, steps are kept compact and the dance is danced without any rise and fall. This style is authentic, as is the use of free arms in various figures. The basic figures derive from dance moves observed in Havana in the pre-revolutionary period, and have developed their own life since then. Competition figures are often complex, and this is where competition dance separates from social dance. Details can be obtained from the syllabi of dance teaching organizations and from standard texts.

Salsa is a type of music and dance of hispanic origin. Salsa music is based on Cuban music. This is a fusion of musical ideas which originally came from Africa and Spain.

During 1965-1975 in New York, musicians of Cuban and Puerto Rican origin combined to produce this Cuban-style music. The music got the label of 'salsa'. No-one really knows how this happened, but everyone recognised how good it was to have a label for it. Over time, salsa bands worked in other influences. For example, in the late 60s Willie Colon developed numbers that made use of Brazilian rhythms. N.Y. radio programmes offered 'salsarengue' as a further combination.

The question of whether or not salsa is anything more than Cuban music has been argued over for more than thirty years. Initially, not much difference could be heard. Later it became clear that salsa in New York was a bit different from popular music in Cuba. Also, Miami, Venezuela, Colombia and other places all had their own ideas. It now seems clear that salsa has receded from the great position it achieved in the late 1970s, at any rate in New York. The reasons for this are also much disputed. It is difficult for any music which uses a foreign language to succeed in the biggest English-speaking market-place.


Junior dance competition in the Czech Republic. It's a cha-cha-cha danced to a high standard.
Salsa as a dance can be seen in all the places mentioned. Unlike standard ballroom dancing, there is no clear agreement on how it should be danced, and the methods differ widely in detail. The teaching of salsa is also rather undeveloped. But, as a general guide, salsa dancing is rather like other dances from Cuba, such as the cha-cha-cha.

Irish dancing is an ancient art of dancing from Ireland. There are two main forms of dancing, the social dances where everyone can join in, and the dances performed for an audience. There are five main types of steps in Irish dancing. These are reels, jigs, slip jigs, hornpipes, and treble jigs. Irish dancing is a fun art and sport.

Irish dancing, popularized in 1994 by the world famous show Riverdance, is notable for its rapid leg and foot movements, arms stationary at the dancers' sides.
