Good evening. Most of us will have
Good evening. Most of us will have some useable weather this weekend.
some useable weather this weekend. However, it will be colder. We had
However, it will be colder. We had lovely weather today in Scotland,
lovely weather today in Scotland, very different to complexion to
very different to complexion to tomorrow at thes weather. This is
tomorrow at thes weather. This is how it looked on the south coast,
how it looked on the south coast, some strong winds and gales and
some strong winds and gales and gusts of 76mph. Severe gales for a
gusts of 76mph. Severe gales for a time.
time. And, this has come in recently, ran
And, this has come in recently, ran you make out the
And, this has come in recently, can you make out the snow? Yes, snow
you make out the snow? Yes, snow across some lowland parts of
across some lowland parts of northern England at the moment,
northern England at the moment, across Northern Ireland and you will
across Northern Ireland and you will continue to have that threat the
continue to have that threat the rest of the evening as that low
rest of the evening as that low pressure transfers north, taking
pressure transfers north, taking with it strongest winds and even
with it strongest winds and even gales to the north and east. Behind
gales to the north and east. Behind it the weather quietens down quickly
it the weather quietens down quickly and under clearing skies we could
and under clearing skies we could turn icy with a frost, particularly
turn icy with a frost, particularly where the showers continue in the
where the showers continue in the south-west and into Wales through
south-west and into Wales through the night. But not exclusively here,
the night. But not exclusively here, there could be ice elsewhere.
there could be ice elsewhere. Possibly the odd patch of freezing
Possibly the odd patch of freezing fog, as well. Also a risk of rain
fog, as well. Also a risk of rain dose to
fog, as well. Also a risk of rain close to the south coast in the
dose to the south coast in the morning but I
close to the south coast in the morning but I want to tell up this
morning but I want to tell up this low is going to better parts of
low is going to batter parts of France
low is going to better parts of France and disruptive winds,
France and dismptive winds, powerful
France and disruptive winds, powerful winds,
France and disruptive winds, powerfulwinds, up
France and disruptive winds, powerful winds, up to 90mph, and
powerful winds, up to 90mph, and that could have an impact for those
that could have an impact for those travelling to watch the England
travelling to watch the England match against France at Twickenham
match against France at Twickenham tomorrow. There could be a few
tomorrow. There could be a few showers close to Murrayfield, as
showers dose to Murrayfield, as well.
showers close to Murrayfield, as well. Let’s start with the rain
well. Let’s start with the rain dose to
well. Let’s start with the rain close to the south and east in the
dose to the south and east in the morning and
close to the south and east in the morning and cloud, bright rather
morning and cloud, bright rather than sunny. Further west hopefully
than sunny. Further west hopefully we will see more sunshine than today
we will see more sunshine than today but it’s a chilly
we will see more sunshine than today but it’s a chilly start. The showers
but it’s a chilly start. The showers could
but it’s a chilly start. The showers could well be of a wintry flavour as
could well be of a wintry ﬂavour as they fall into
could well be of a wintry flavour as they fall into north-west England.
they fall into north-west England. Gearing
they fall into north-west England. Clearing away that rain from
Clearing away that rain from Northern Ireland, so an improving
Northern Ireland, so an improving picture but a different day for
picture but a different day for northern and central Scotland with
northern and central Scotland with outbreaks of rain, strong winds and
outbreaks of rain, strong winds and hill snow,
outbreaks of rain, strong winds and hillsnow, possibly
outbreaks of rain, strong winds and hill snow, possibly even at lower
hill snow, possibly even at lower levels for a time. Elsewhere, that
levels for a time. Elsewhere, that low pressure clears away, we have a
low pressure clears away, we have a few showers in the west. A lot of
few showers in the west. A lot of dry and fairly bright weather. It is
dry and fairly bright weather. It is just not as warm as it has been.
just not as warm as it has been. It will be a colder weekend. Then
It will be a colder weekend. Then tomorrow evening and night we will
tomorrow evening and night we will see more showers developing. There
see more showers developing. There is a chance of wintriness in the
is a chance of wintriness in the showers and some ice and freezing
showers and some ice and freezing fog around on Sunday morning. Again
fog around on Sunday morning. Again those showers become fewer, still a
those showers become fewer, still a risk near the east coast close to
risk near the east coast dose to this low
risk near the east coast close to this low pressure centre but again
this low pressure centre but again the sunshine, lighter winds
the sunshine, lighter winds compensating for the fact it will be
compensating for the fact it will be chillier than this week, only six to
chillier than this week, only six to eight. Quiet frosty start to Monday
eight. Quiet frosty start to Monday with fog but then it
’LUMHIH’
Five weeks in.
Five guest-star performers.
Oh, my word.
Five new bands.
This looks like an extremely strong band.
Every single one of them’s a great singer.
But who will make the final cut?
The first boy in this band is...
Saturday, at the earlier time of 6:40pm...
Graham Norton!
Hear, hear!
Thank you, Mr Speaker.
0n tonight’s show, in addition to some luminescent stars
of stage and screen...
Hear, hear!
We will also be welcoming our longest-serving female
Member of Parliament.
Hear, hear!
Order!
I put it to the House - let’s start the show!
CHEERING.
Axel-macro!
Hello, and welcome.
Yes, there’s a definite whiff of politics in the air tonight.
And why not?
It’s been another rollercoaster week.
The big news - Prime Minister Theresa May went to Washington.
The first world leader to meet with President Trump.
Here she is holding Trump’s hand.
Still, at least if she’s got hold of his hand,
it’s not grabbing anything else.
It was a very tender moment when they held hands,
and I think we’ve got a picture of Theresa May afterwards.
Get it off me!
President Trump has been signing a flurry of executive orders.
Now, Idon’t want to get too political with Trump’s immigration
policy, but if there are any Mexican Muslims watching,
Iwouldn’t promise the kids DisneyWorld this year.
Meanwhile, nearly 2 million people have now signed an online petition
to cancel Trump’s planned state visit to Britain.
Apparently, you can register your disapprovaljust by clicking
a button on your iPad.
Let’s get some guests on.
Later, we’ll have music from the mighty Elbow.
But first, since the age of eight, this young British star has worked
with the likes of Martin Scorsese and Tim Burton, and now he’s taking
on his first adult role in The Space Between Us.
Please welcome Asa Butterfield.
She’s been at the heart of Labour politics for over 30 years,
and is the UK’s longest serving female MP.
Her new memoir is called A Woman’s Work.
Please welcome Harriet Harman.
She’s a four-time Oscar nominee who’s starred in classic films
such as American Beauty, The Grifters, The American President
and The Kids Are Alright.
Now she gives another stellar performance in the comedy drama
Twentieth Century Women.
It’s the great Annette Bening.
And this British actor has appeared in films like The Social Network,
The Amazing Spiderman and Martin Scorsese’s Silence.
He’s just been Oscar nominated for his performance in Hacksaw Ridge.
Now returning to the stage with Angels in America -
welcome back, Andrew Garfield!
Hello!
End for the wine! It’s welcome back to Andrew, first time for Asa.
to Andrew, first time for Asa. People turn on the television
People turn on the television because you look much younger than
because you look much younger than your actual years.
because you look much younger than youractualyears. |
because you look much younger than your actual years. I do.
because you look much younger than youractualyears. Ido. I’m
because you look much younger than youractualyears. I do. I’m 19. You
your actualyears. I do. I’m 19. You ran drink and
youractualyears. I do. I’m 19. You can drink and swear and all sorts. |
ran drink and swear and all sorts. I wanted to
can drink and swear and all sorts. I wanted to clarify, |
can drink and swear and all sorts. I wanted to clarify, I would turn on
wanted to clarify, I would turn on the television and say there is a
the television and say there is a very young person on the couch.
very young person on the couch. Harriet Harman, you’ve never done a
Harriet Harman, you’ve never done a show like this before. when l
Harriet Harman, you’ve never done a show like this before. when I saw
show like this before. when I saw you doing the Prime Minister ‘5
you doing the Prime Minister ‘5 questions, I had a revelation, |
questions, I had a revelation, I realise that you should be Prime
realise that you should be Prime Minister.
Minister. CHEERING AND APPLAUSE. |
Minister. CHEERING AND APPLAUSE. I think that
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE. I think that a lot. It is what we have been
a lot. It is what we have been waiting for. Next time there is a
waiting for. Next time there is a varancy
waiting for. Next time there is a vacancy in Tower Hamlets, |
waiting for. Next time there is a vacancy in Tower Hamlets, I am in.
vacancy in Tower Hamlets, lam in. Have I seen you on
vacancy in Tower Hamlets, I am in. Have I seen you on a British talk
Have I seen you on a British talk show before, Annette? I’m not sure
show before, Annette? I’m not sure that you have. I
show before, Annette? I’m not sure that you have. I do talk shows in
that you have. I do talk shows in America. You do? And just shy. Get
America. You do? And just shy. Get that down new! |
America. You do? And just shy. Get that down new! l have found a bit of
that down new! I have found a bit of a cure all.
that down new! l have found a bit of a cure all. Andrew Garfield, how
a cure all. Andrew Garfield, how lovely to have you at this time.
lovely to have you at this time. Congratulations on your Oscar
Congratulations on your Oscar nomination.
nomination. CHEERING AND APPLAUSE. Oscars this
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE. Osrars this month, I
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE. Oscars this month, l have heard you,...
You have threatened to recreate your beautiful Golden Globes moment,
which you must be so regretting because you have talked
about it everywhere you go.
I’m sure you guys saw this.
Ryan Gosling was on the show a couple of weeks ago.
Yes.
Ryan Gosling is getting his award.
Annette, you’re here somewhere.
There you are.
Is that you?
Oh yeah.
I think you’re over there.
Over here, stealing the thunder is Andrew Garfield and Ryan Reynolds.
Are you going to do it at the Oscars?
IF}
It was a ridiculous thing.
It was ridiculous.
I said to Ryan Reynolds, if you win, kiss me instead of your wife.
And he said, yeah, that’s great and the plan was that he would kind
of move towards his wife and then kinda last-minute move towards me.
And then he didn’t win, much to our disappointment and I said,
we could stilljust do it!
And he was game.
I love the fact it was so deep in the background so you had to kind
of look to see if it was actually...
Ryan Gosling was unaware of it.
I know.
Were you aware of it, Annette?
IF}
That night. The big moment was Merrill making her amazing speech
Merrill making her amazing speech that night. I presume that the
that night. I presume that the Oscars are going to be similar. I
Oscars are going to be similar. I imagine so. Annette, you are famous
imagine so. Annette, you are famous long time it Democrat. |
imagine so. Annette, you are famous long time it Democrat. I heard you,
long time it Democrat. I heard you, before the inauguration, you were
before the inauguration, you were saying, ralm
before the inauguration, you were saying, calm down, everyone... How
saying, ralm down, everyone... How are you feeling
saying, calm down, everyone... How are you feeling now? |
saying, calm down, everyone... How are you feeling now? I don’t
are you feeling now? I don’t remember saying that. Well, |
remember saying that. Well, I respect very much the public
respect very much the public servants, like you, people who put
servants, like you, people who put themselves up to help run our
themselves up to help mn our country,
themselves up to help run our country, especially the Democrats, |
country, especially the Democrats, I am a Democrat. |
country, especially the Democrats, I am a Democrat. I also very much
am a Democrat. I also very much right now applaud the Republicans
right now applaud the Republicans who are standing up to Trump. Be
who are standing up to Trump. Be very much
who are standing up to Tmmp. Be very much need
who are standing up to Trump. Be very much need them and so his
very much need them and so his attack on the press, |
very much need them and so his attack on the press, I think is very
attack on the press, I think is very unfortunate, I think we need the
unfortunate, I think we need the press, obviously,... Harriet is
press, obviously, . . . Harriet is saying, do we
press, obviously,... Harriet is saying, do we really? Are you sure?
saying, do we really? Are you sure? I
saying, do we really? Are you sure? lam feeling
saying, do we really? Are you sure? I am feeling sorry for them in the
I am feeling sorry for them in the States, they are incredibly
States, they are incredibly important. And his spokespeople have
important. And his spokespeople have said and he has said, they are the
said and he has said, they are the opposition party. It takes a while
opposition party. It takes a while for things to sort themselves out.
for things to sort themselves out. Harriet Harman, Theresa May, went to
Harriet Harman, Theresa May, went to Washington and is getting a lot of
Washington and is getting a lot of ﬂak. I
Washington and is getting a lot of flak. lfeel
Washington and is getting a lot of flak. Ifeel for her, because we
ﬂak. lfeel for her, because we rannot
flak. Ifeel for her, because we cannot sever all ties with America,
cannot sever all ties with America, we need America. It is an easy
we need America. It is an easy question for you, you do not have to
question for you, you do not have to do it, but what would be your
do it, but what would be your approach? I think that she has got
approach? I think that she has got to look as though she has a strong
to look as though she has a strong Prime Minister, 3 strong,
Prime Minister, 3 strong, self-confident country and not look
self-confident country and not look as though she is going there are
as though she is going there are begging for
as though she is going there are begging fora trade deal on any
begging for a trade deal on any terms whatsoever. That is why that
terms whatsoever. That is why that handholding thing was so disastrous
handholding thing was so disastrous because it looked like he was sort
because it looked like he was sort of leading her along.
Isn’t that a particular problem for a female politician, he could not
a female politician, he could not have done that with a man.
have done that with a man. Definitely. There are rumours about
Definitely. There are mmours about why he did it,
Definitely. There are rumours about why he did it, but she should have
why he did it, but she should have had in her briefing, this man is an
had in her briefing, this man is an identified groper, stand well away!
identified groper, stand well away! APPLAUSE. Harriet, in your
identified groper, stand well away! APPLAUSE. Harriet, in yourtime
identified groper, stand well away! APPLAUSE. Harriet, in your time you
APPLAUSE. Harriet, in your time you have also encountered the problems
have also encountered the problems of body language. There is that
of body language. There is that famous picture of you with Ed Balls.
famous picture of you with Ed Balls. You don’t like -- like you are
You don’t like -- like you are inviting a rase
You don’t like -- like you are inviting a case their! |
You don’t like -- like you are inviting a case their! I absolutely
inviting a use their! I absolutely love
inviting a case their! I absolutely love him. You appear to have eaten
love him. You appear to have eaten your own lips! It is like
your own lips! It is like politicians kissing in public. Trump
politicians kissing in public. Tmmp said
politicians kissing in public. Trump said apparently that he has got this
said apparently that he has got this thing, which is like, he is saying,
thing, which is like, he is saying, I had to hold her hand because I
I had to hold her hand because I have this phobia, a fear of slopes.
have this phobia, a fear of slopes. I know men seize various parts of
I know men seize various parts of women’s bodies were all sorts of
women’s bodies were all sorts of reasons, but that is the first time
reasons, but that is the first time I have
reasons, but that is the first time l have heard of that phobia! I’m
I have heard of that phobia! I’m sorry, I have
l have heard of that phobia! I’m sorry, I have got to grab your bum
sorry, I have got to grab your bum because I really feel giddy on this
because I really feel giddy on this slope! Anyway, he might have that
slope! Anyway, he might have that phobia, but certainly |
slope! Anyway, he might have that phobia, but certainly l have got a
phobia, but certainly I have got a phobia of him
phobia, but certainly l have got a phobia of him and certainly lots of
phobia of him and certainly lots of other people have as well.
other people have as well. LAUGHTER. It is like Question Time,
MUGHTER. It is like Question Time, it is good. I love
LAUGHTER. It is like Question Time, it is good. I love it. Yes. Man in
it is good. I love it. Yes. Man in the pink tie. Yes. We mentioned
the pink tie. Yes. We mentioned already be Oscar nominations, but it
already be Oscar nominations, but it is currently in UK cinemas,
is currently in UK cinemas, challenge Michael, directed by Mel
challenge Michael, directed by Mel Gibson and it is an extraordinary
Gibson and it is an extraordinary tme
Gibson and it is an extraordinary two story. I
Gibson and it is an extraordinary true story. I love films that do
tme story. I love films that do this --
true story. I love films that do this -- challenge macro. -- Hacksaw
this -- challenge macro. -- Hacksaw Ridge. I play an
this -- challenge macro. -- Hacksaw Ridge. | play an Army medic who
Ridge. I play an Army medic who served in
Ridge. | play an Army medic who served in World War II. He was a
served in World War II. He was a pacifist and all medics had to be
pacifist and all media had to be armed
pacifist and all medics had to be armed but he refused. He refused to
armed but he refused. He refused to go near a weapon. That unto itself
go near a weapon. That unto itself was a act, but legally he
was a beautiful act, but legally he was obligated to carry one so his
was obligated to carry one so his own Army tried to get him kicked out
own Army tried to get him kicked out and put in prison and he managed to
and put in prison and he managed to finally find a legal loophole and
finally find a legal loophole and serve but he was ostracised by his
serve but he was ostracised by his own men. Then he did these
own men. Then he did these miraculous things on the
miraculous things on the battlefields. He didn’t only treat
battlefields. He didn’t only treat and
battlefields. He didn’t only treat and save the lives of his own men,
and save the lives of his own men, 75 in one night, he carried down a
75 in one night, he carried down a rich, one man as skinny as me,
rich, one man as skinny as me, carrying amend the size of Vince
carrying amend the size of Vince Vaughn, but he also treated members
Vaughn, but he also treated members of the opposition. He treated the
of the opposition. He treated the enemy. He did not see skin colour,
enemy. He did not see skin colour, he saw a man in need, only ever a
he saw a man in need, only ever a man in need and he understood the
man in need and he understood the sanctity of life. The values in him,
sanctity of life. The values in him, the virtues in him that he embodied
the virtues in him that he embodied our incredible for us to look to now
our incredible for us to look to now and very awe-inspiring. Our club is
and very awe-inspiring. Our club is exactly that. It is during the
exactly that. It is during the horrific battle. The battle of
horrific battle. The battle of Hacksaw Ridge and this is you
Hacksaw Ridge and this is you rescuing your surgeon, played by
rescuing your surgeon, played by Vince Bond. Give me this. It is a
Vince Bond. Give me this. It is a bit late for target practice now,
bit late for target practice now, don’t you think? Jump on it. You’re
don’t you think? jump on it. You’re kidding? I
don’t you think? jump on it. You’re kidding? lwill
don’t you think? Jump on it. You’re kidding? I will drag you. Let’s do
kidding? I will drag you. Let’s do it! Ready? Yes. Let’s go. We’ve got
it! Ready? Yes. Let’s go. We’ve got company! Come
it! Ready? Yes. Let’s go. We’ve got company! Come on!
company! Come on! APPLAUSE.
i:
It has been really well received, you got the Oscar nod, but how does
you got the Oscar nod, but how does that happen, were you watching
that happen, were you watching television, did you watch the
television, did you watch the announcement live? |
television, did you watch the announcement live? l was across the
announcement live? I was across the street
announcement live? l was across the street from the studio, I am
street from the studio, I am rehearsing a play. And |
street from the studio, I am rehearsing a play. And l was in
rehearsing a play. And l was in rehearsals. It was for Angels in
rehearsals. It was for Angels in America and we had just broken for
America and we had just broken for lunch and they were doing the
lunch and they were doing the announcement on LA time. |
lunch and they were doing the announcement on LA time. I had
announcement on LA time. I had bought a tuna salad in the canteen.
ﬂ
l was eating this tuna salad while
I was eating this tuna salad while drinking
l was eating this tuna salad while drinking sparkling water, alone in
drinking sparkling water, alone in the National Theatre Canteen,
the National Theatre Canteen, terrified of doing a play again
terrified of doing a play again because I’m a terrible actor!
because I’m a terrible actor! LAUGHTER
LAUGHTER It was ironic, here rehearsals
MUGHTER It was ironic, here rehearsals are
It was ironic, here rehearsals are tricky. It’s a fumbling, failing
tricky. It’s a fumbling, failing process where you are trying to
process where you are trying to figure out what the hell you’re
figure out what the hell you’re doing, you
figure out what the hell you’re doing, you feel terrible, mostly. To
doing, you feel terrible, mostly. To find out in that moment that you are
find out in that moment that you are nominated for such a prestigious
nominated for such a prestigious award, it felt very ironic. It felt
award, it felt very ironic. It felt very strange. I
award, it felt very ironic. It felt very strange. Ididn’t quite
award, it felt very ironic. It felt very strange. I didn’t quite believe
very strange. I didn’t quite believe it. You
very strange. I didn’t quite believe it. You must have gone back into the
it. You must have gone back into the afternoon rehearsal thinking, I’ve
afternoon rehearsal thinking, I’ve got this! I was
afternoon rehearsal thinking, I’ve got this! l was a bit like, oh,
got this! lwas a bit like, oh, maybe I was
got this! l was a bit like, oh, maybe I was wrong about that!
If anyone knows what it’s like, it’s Annette Bening.
You’ve been nominated, is it four times?
Yes.
Four times!
Never won, obviously, but four times!
LAUGHTER.
You really have to bring that up!
So, what is it like being nominated?
What’s the evening like?
Oh, it’s very exciting.
The first time l was nominated was 26 years ago.
The five of us who were nominated got together in the audience before
the show went on the air, and we all agreed, secretly,
just amongst us, that we would have dinner the next week,
and whoever won would pay.
So Whoopi Goldberg won, the next day l was working on a movie,
the next day in my trailer I got a beautiful big boquet of flowers
with a little note saying, meet at such and such
a restaurant next week.
We all met, and Whoopi gave us each a gardenia and a chocolate Oscar.
So, look at it this way, if you lose, Andrew,
there might be a free dinner in it!
Swings and roundabouts.
when you were really young you were in you go and The Boy In The Striped
in you go and The Boy In The Striped Pyjamas. Why you around the whole
Pyjamas. Why you around the whole award thing, why you hold out as
award thing, why you hold out as Greg I was
award thing, why you hold out as Greg l was around it. They love
Greg I was around it. They love bringing up a
Greg l was around it. They love bringing up a Child onstage! When
bringing up a Child onstage! when you’re that
bringing up a Child onstage! when you’re that age, you don’t really
you’re that age, you don’t really know
you’re that age, you don’t really know what the hell is going on. |
know what the hell is going on. I don’t either! And I’m in my 605! Did
don’t either! And I’m in my 605! Did they put you in a
don’t either! And I’m in my 605! Did they put you in a tiny tuxedoed?
they put you in a tiny tuxedoed? They do! They haul you want the
They do! They haul you want the carpet, you have to stand and smile
carpet, you have to stand and smile and look cute. You know the way when
and look cute. You know the way when you put on weight you keep your
you put on weight you keep your suit, do you have a tiny tuxedoed in
suit, do you have a tiny tuxedoed in the back of your wardrobe thinking,
the back of your wardrobe thinking, that
the hack of your wardrobe thinking, that might
the back of your wardrobe thinking, that might come in handy for
that might come in handy for something! I do, and my mum wears
something! I do, and my mum wears it! Now, Andrew, we’ve mentioned
it! Now, Andrew, we’ve mentioned already while
it! Now, Andrew, we’ve mentioned already while currently rehearsing
already while currently rehearsing Angels In America, which opens in
Angels In America, which opens in the lush Theatre on the 11th of
the lush Theatre on the 11th of April. So will the National Theatre.
April. So will the National Theatre. The play is 25 years old, it’s
The play is 25 years old, it’s unbelievable to me. For this
unbelievable to me. For this anniversary production they have put
anniversary production they have put together an extraordinary team. Tell
together an extraordinary team. Tell us who you’ve got? Marianne Elliott
us who you’ve got? Marianne Elliott is directing the play. She did The
is directing the play. She did The Curious Incident of The Dog In The
Curious Incident of The Dog In The Night-time. And Warhorse. The cast
Night-time. And Warhorse. The cast is incredible. Nathan Lane is
is incredible. Nathan lane is playing the
is incredible. Nathan Lane is playing the famous New York lawyer,
playing the famous New York lawyer, one of Donald Trump was like
one of Donald Tmmp was like mentors,
one of Donald Trump was like mentors, actually. It all comes
mentors, actually. It all comes back! It’s set in the 805 in New
back! It’s set in the 805 in New York City. It’s set in the aid Sun
York City. It’s set in the aid Sun crisis, where AIDS was at its peak
crisis, where AIDS was at its peak and nobody really knew where it had
and nobody really knew where it had come from or how to stop it -- the
come from or how to stop it -- the AIDS crisis. It was spreading like
AIDS crisis. It was spreading like an awful wildfire that was just
an awful wildfire that was just taking lives. And it’s actually a
taking lives. And it’s actually a comedy,
taking lives. And it’s actually a comedy, we’re discovering in
comedy, we’re discovering in rehearsals. It’s weird, it’s a very,
rehearsals. It’s weird, it’s a very, very funny play
rehearsals. It’s weird, it’s a very, very funny play that Tony has
very funny play that Tony has written. It’s incredibly tragic but
written. It’s incredibly tragic but incredibly funny. It’s basically
incredibly funny. It’s basically about how the six or seven main
about how the six or seven main characters or attempting to make
characters or attempting to make sense of this modern plague. There
sense of this modern plague. There is massive excitement about this
is massive excitement about this production. If you don’t live in
production. If you don’t live in London or can’t get to London, it is
London or can’t get to London, it is going to be beamed to cinemas around
going to be beamed to cinemas around the world through one of those
the world through one of those entities live things. 20th of
the world through one of those entities live things. 20th ofJuly,
entities live things. 20th of july, you’ve got
entities live things. 20th ofJuly, you’ve got plenty of time to get
you’ve got plenty of time to get ready. And then the 22nd of
you’ve got plenty of time to get ready. And then the 22nd ofJuly is
ready. And then the 22nd of july is the
ready. And then the 22nd ofJuly is the second part. Altogether, it’s
the second part. Altogether, it’s about
the second part. Altogether, it’s about seven hours long, do you
about seven hours long, do you think? I
about seven hours long, do you think? Idon’t know how long it is!
think? I don’t know how long it is! Speak quicker!
think? Idon’t know how long it is! Speak quicker! It’s absolutely going
Speak quicker! It’s absolutely going to be worth your time. Actually, I
to be worth your time. Actually, I take that back, I’m not sure if it
take that back, I’m not sure if it is yet! Sell,
take that back, I’m not sure if it is yet! Sell, sell, sell! Your Oscar
is yet! Sell, sell, sell! Your Oscar nominated, how bad can you be?! The
nominated, how bad ran you be?! The Play
nominated, how bad ran you be?! The play itself is
nominated, how bad can you be?! The play itself is absolutely worth your
play itself is absolutely worth your time, I swear,
play itself is absolutely worth your time, lswear, it’s
play itself is absolutely worth your time, I swear, it’s a life changing
time, lswear, it’s a life changing experience.
time, I swear, it’s a life changing experience. Annette, you must have
experience. Annette, you must have seen this the first time around was
seen this the first time around was blogged it was done the first time
blogged it was done the first time in Los Angeles. It was the first
in Los Angeles. It was the first time I had been in LA when a theatre
time I had been in LA when a theatre piece really became an event. It was
piece really became an event. It was done downtown, you would go for the
done downtown, you would go for the day. You would go to the matinee,
day. You would go to the matinee, just like I’m sure
day. You would go to the matinee, just like I’m sure people will do
just like I’m sure people will do here. You
just like I’m sure people will do here. You would go to the matinee
here. You would go to the matinee you have a bite to eat and then you
you have a bite to eat and then you see the evening performance. Then it
see the evening performance. Then it went to New York, it was a huge
went to New York, it was a huge event. Yes, it’s incredible. It’s a
event. Yes, it’s incredible. It’s a chat show, so
event. Yes, it’s incredible. It’s a chat show, so I’m very excited to
chat show, so I’m very excited to tell you that on
chat show, so I’m very excited to tell you that on our couch tonight
tell you that on our couch tonight we have a record holder. Yes, we do.
we have a record holder. Yes, we do. That record holder is Asa, you are a
That record holder is Asa, you are a record holder, argued?! -- aren’t
record holder, argued?! -- aren’t you. He’s very fast
record holder, argued?! -- aren’t you. He’s very fast at doing
you. He’s very fast at doing something.
you. He’s very fast at doing something. Any guesses, Andrew’s how
something. Any guesses, Andrevrs how old are you? He’s
something. Any guesses, Andrew’s how old are you? He’s 19! |
something. Any guesses, Andrew’s how old are you? He’s 19! I also what
old are you? He’s 19! I also what you. What are
old are you? He’s 19! I also what you. What are the things you are
you. What are the things you are very fast that? Neither of them are
very fast that? Neither of them are at all useful. I can clap very fast.
at all useful. I ran clap very fast. Take that,
at all useful. I can clap very fast. Take that, audience! Somebody on the
Take that, audience! Somebody on the couch has that, I’m better at
couch has that, I’m better at clapping and
couch has that, I’m better at clapping and the audience! I can
clapping and the audience! I ran type brief
clapping and the audience! I can type brief asked... What is your
type brief asked... What is your best time? My best time for typing
best time? My best time for typing the alphabet is 1.7 seconds. |
best time? My best time for typing the alphabet is 1.7 seconds. I think
the alphabet is 1.7 seconds. I think the world record is on the one
the world record is on the one second. So you’re not a record
second. So you’re not a record holder at
second. So you’re not a record holder at all? What a waste of time
holder at all? What a waste of time this has been?! I know, it’s a
this has been?! I know, it’s a record
this has been?! I know, it’s a record attempt, we’re going for
this has been?! I know, it’s a record attempt, we’re going fora
record attempt, we’re going for a record
record attempt, we’re going fora record attempt! They have set,
record attempt! They have set, there’s a
record attempt! They have set, there’s a website, they’ve set this
there’s a website, therve set this "P
there’s a website, therve set this up where
there’s a website, they’ve set this up where there is a clock, the
up where there is a clock, the alphabet, and as you type the thing
alphabet, and as you type the thing the alphabet lights up. |
alphabet, and as you type the thing the alphabet lights up. I had one,
the alphabet lights up. I had one, my brother showed me it. Can you
my brother showed me it. than you show us on
my brother showed me it. Can you show us on this? |
my brother showed me it. Can you show us on this? I can. ls
my brother showed me it. Can you show us on this? I can. Is it the
show us on this? I ran. Is it the same one?
show us on this? I can. Is it the same one? I’d love that you’re
same one? I’d love that you’re bringing your
same one? I’d love that you’re bringing your drink with you! It’s
bringing your drink with you! It’s all there. Basically, you start
all there. Basically, you start typing and the clock starts, 0K?
typing and the dock starts, OK? when I
typing and the clock starts, OK? when I did this come of the game was
when I did this come of the game was called Finger Frenzy. 0K,
when I did this come of the game was called Finger Frenzy. OK, maybe
called Finger Frenzy. OK, maybe that’s
called Finger Frenzy. OK, maybe that’s what you would do going when
that’s what you would do going when you found it!
that’s what you would do going when you found it! Honestly, this is good
you found it! Honestly, this is good -- what you were googling. Come on,
-- what you were googling. Come on, come on! Here we go, here we go...
come on! Here we go, here we go... Iraq I’ll!
Reset! It was nerves! It’s a different keyboard layout. It’s the
different keyboard layout. It’s the best of 20!
ﬂ
I need finger frenzy,
I need fingerfrenzy, it’s
I need finger frenzy, it’s this
I need finger frenzy, it’s this game!
game! APPLAUSE
APPLAUSE Anybody else want to go? Harriet
Anybody else want to go? Harriet Harman, no? All right, let’s write
Harman, no? All right, let’s write fast clapping. I
Harman, no? All right, let’s write fast clapping. l have no idea what
fast clapping. I have no idea what this is. I
fast clapping. l have no idea what this is. I watched a video on
this is. I watched a video on YouTube who held the world record.
YouTube who held the world record. I’m getting all
YouTube who held the world record. I’m getting all of these things off
I’m getting all of these things off YouTube,
I’m getting all of these things off YouTube, it’s amazing. There is a
YouTube, it’s amazing. There is a technique.
YouTube, it’s amazing. There is a technique. Most people clap like
technique. Most people clap like this. But if you sort of flex like
this. But if you sort of ﬂex like this, then it
this. But if you sort of flex like this, then it starts to speed up.
Wow, that’s impressive! I would just
Wow, that’s impressive! I would just say, enjoy this
Wow, that’s impressive! I would just say, enjoy this time, now you can
say, enjoy this time, now you ran legally drink, so
say, enjoy this time, now you can legally drink, so these games ROV
legally drink, so these games ROV offer you! -- these games are over
offer you! -- these games are over for you. Very impressive. Annette
for you. Very impressive. Annette Bening, you bring us a fabulous
Bening, you bring us a fabulous film, 20th-century women opens next
film, 20th-century women opens next Friday. I
film, 20th-century women opens next Friday. llove
film, 20th-century women opens next Friday. I love films like this. It
Friday. I love films like this. It just has a great ensemble cast, and
just has a great ensemble cast, and it’s a particular
just has a great ensemble cast, and it’s a particular sort of American
it’s a particular sort of American film that you
it’s a particular sort of American film that you guys are so good at
film that you guys are so good at making. Tell me about it? Mike Mills
making. Tell me about it? Mike Mills wrote and directed it, it’s 1979,
wrote and directed it, it’s1979, Santa
wrote and directed it, it’s 1979, Santa Barbara, this is predigital,
Santa Barbara, this is predigital, which is kind of an interesting
which is kind of an interesting thing now, to look back at a time
thing now, to look back at a time before we had the digital age. And
before we had the digital age. And I’m playing
before we had the digital age. And I’m playing the mum who is trying to
I’m playing the mum who is trying to figure out my
I’m playing the mum who is trying to figure out my own life and raise my
figure out my own life and raise my son, and I’ve got the sun and he’s
son, and I’ve got the sun and he’s trying to grow up and figure out me.
trying to grow up and figure out me. And we’ve got a
trying to grow up and figure out me. And we’ve got a group of people
And we’ve got a group of people living in the
And we’ve got a group of people living in the house, we’ve got a
living in the house, we’ve got a punk artist
living in the house, we’ve got a punk artist kind of wild woman, but
punk artist kind of wild woman, but who also has problems and has an
who also has problems and has an illness, and we have our farming who
illness, and we have our farming who Plays
illness, and we have our farming who plays his friend, who is a bad ass
plays his friend, who is a bad ass teenage girl, amazing. It is based
teenage girl, amazing. It is based on the director’s mother. I found
on the director’s mother. lfound her very
on the director’s mother. I found her very sympathetic character.
her very sympathetic character. She’s trying
her very sympathetic character. She’s trying so hard to be the best
She’s trying so hard to be the best mother
She’s trying so hard to be the best mother she can be. Right, but I like
mother she ran be. Right, but I like her
mother she can be. Right, but I like her because she’s not idealised mum,
her because she’s not idealised mum, she is just a real
her because she’s not idealised mum, she isjust a real human being. 0h,
she is justa real human being. Oh, no, she’s failing
she isjust a real human being. on, no, she’s failing constantly! We’ve
no, she’s failing constantly! We’ve got a clip. This
no, she’s failing constantly! We’ve got a clip. This is her character
got a clip. This is her character presiding, you know, you’re trying
presiding, you know, you’re trying to be liberal,
presiding, you know, you’re trying to be liberal, lovely mum. At a
to be liberal, lovely mum. At a dinner party. Jamie, would you
dinner party. jamie, would you please wake
dinner party. Jamie, would you please wake up Abbey? Stop it, I’m
please wake up Abbey? Stop it, I’m menstmating.
please wake up Abbey? Stop it, I’m menstruating. Abbey, you know what,
menstmating. Abbey, you know what, you’re
menstruating. Abbey, you know what, you’re menstruating, but do you have
you’re menstmating, but do you have to say it? Do we
you’re menstruating, but do you have to say it? Do we really need to know
to say it? Do we really need to know everything that’s going on with you?
everything that’s going on with you? What, I’m
everything that’s going on with you? What, I’m menstruating? Why is that
What, I’m menstmating? Why is that a big deal was
What, I’m menstruating? Why is that a big deal was yellow we don’t need
a big deal was yellow we don’t need to hear about that, thank you. If
to hear about that, thank you. If you want to have an adult
you want to have an adult relationship with a woman, if you
relationship with a woman, if you want to have sex with a woman’s
want to have sex with a woman’s vagina, you
want to have sex with a woman’s vagina, you have to be comfortable
vagina, you have to be comfortable with the fact that the woman’s
with the fact that the woman’s vagina
with the fact that the woman’s vagina ministries, just a
vagina ministries, just a menstruation, is not a big deal,
menstmation, is not a big deal, start saying it
menstruation, is not a big deal, start saying it now, menstruation.
start saying it now, menstmation. No. Yes,
start saying it now, menstruation. No. Yes, administration. Jamie,
No. Yes, administration. jamie, you’re saying it
No. Yes, administration. Jamie, you’re saying it like you’re scared.
you’re saying it like you’re stared. Say it like it is
you’re saying it like you’re scared. Say it like it is normal!
APPLAUSE Asa nearly did his quick clapping
Asa nearly did his quick clapping that, he liked it so much. Next
that, he liked it so much. Next time! You have got four children,
time! You have got four children, those scenes must have resonated
those scenes must have resonated with you? She ad-libbed a lot of
with you? She ad-lihhed a lot of that
with you? She ad-libbed a lot of that scene. It was very, very funny.
that scene. It was very, very funny. And then Billy at the end says, you
And then Billy at the and says, you know, you can’t
And then Billy at the end says, you know, you can’t have sex with just
know, you can’t have sex with just part of the woman and just the
part of the woman and just the vagina, you have to have sex with
vagina, you have to have sex with the whole woman.
vagina, you have to have sex with the whole women. And she
vagina, you have to have sex with the whole woman. And she says, yes,
the whole woman. And she says, yes, but that’s
the whole women. And she says, yes, but that’s slightly off topic! And
but that’s slightly off topic! And that
but that’s slightly off topic! And that was all improvised. It’s a
that was all improvised. It’s a terrific film, it really is. And
terrific film, it really is. And also we should say, in terms of your
also we should say, in terms of your own life, congratulations. Next
own life, congratulations. Next month, is it 25 years you are
month, is it 25 years you are married? Yes. Well done!
married? Yes. Well done! APPLAUSE
APPLAUSE I suppose 25 years is a huge
I suppose 25 years is a huge achievement anywhere. But in
achievement anywhere. But in Hollywood it seems like it’s sort of
Hollywood it seems like it’s sort of extraordinary.
Hollywood it seems like it’s sort of extraordinary. |
Hollywood it seems like it’s sort of extraordinary. I do know, we’re
extraordinary. I do know, we’re given more
extraordinary. I do know, we’re given more credit. |
extraordinary. I do know, we’re given more credit. Idon’t
extraordinary. I do know, we’re given more credit. I don’t know if
given more credit. I don’t know if it is more unusual in Hollywood or
it is more unusual in Hollywood or not. I
it is more unusual in Hollywood or not. lthink
it is more unusual in Hollywood or not. I think there is a lot of
not. I think there is a lot of divorce everywhere. I guess we read
divorce everywhere. I guess we read about mles,
divorce everywhere. I guess we read about rules, that would be the
about rules, that would be the difference! I suppose,
about rules, that would be the difference! lsuppose, --
about rules, that would be the difference! I suppose, -- we read
difference! lsuppose, -- we read about
difference! I suppose, -- we read about Ewels. Warren Beatty had a
about Ewels. Warren Beatty had a reputation before you. Was there a
reputation before you. Was there a lot of, it will never last, are you
lot of, it will never last, are you out of your mind? I suppose there
out of your mind? I suppose there were people, people didn’t say it to
were people, people didn’t say it to me, but
were people, people didn’t say it to me, butl
were people, people didn’t say it to me, but I suppose people thought
me, but I suppose people thought that. They said it to your parents!
that. They said it to your parents! Perhaps, yes. 25 years, can you beat
Perhaps, yes. 25 years, ran you beat that, Harriet
Perhaps, yes. 25 years, can you beat that, Harriet Harman? Yes! Can I
that, Harriet Harman? Yes! (an I just say, though,
that, Harriet Harman? Yes! Can I just say, though, the 20th-century
just say, though, the 20th-century women, that face, that face, any
women, that face, that face, any moment looking at that knows that
moment looking at that knows that therve had
moment looking at that knows that they’ve had that face! -- any mother
therve had that face! -- any mother looking at that.
they’ve had that face! -- any mother looking at that. It’s all
looking at that. It’s all deteriorating all around, and it’s
deteriorating all around, and it’s just so
deteriorating all around, and it’s just so brilliant, I can’t wait to
just so brilliant, I can’t wait to see it, I can’t wait. 30 years, 30
see it, I can’t wait. 30 years, 30 years is contained within Harriet
years is contained within Harriet Harman’s new book, A Woman’s Work,
Harman’s new book, A Woman’s Work, here it is.
Harman’s new book, A Woman’s Work, here it is. And it’s sort of your
here it is. And it’s sort of your life, but it’s
here it is. And it’s sort of your life, but it’s also a story of the
life, but it’s also a story of the women’s
life, but it’s also a story of the women’s movement and your career. A
women’s movement and your career. A solicitor, the longest serving
solicitor, the longest serving female MP, twice acting leader of
female MP, twice acting leader of the Labour Party, all of that, it’s
the Labour Party, all of that, it’s all in here.
the Labour Party, all of that, it’s all in here. What is the big thing,
all in here. What is the big thing, what’s the thing that your proudest
what’s the thing that your proudest of at this point? I guess it’s being
of at this point? I guess it’s being part of that
of at this point? I guess it’s being part of that movement of women. |
part of that movement of women. I mean, I was born and brought up at a
mean, I was born and brought up at a time when the most important thing
time when the most important thing for a
time when the most important thing fora woman
time when the most important thing for a woman was to kind of get a
for a woman was to kind of get a man, and the summit of your ambition
man, and the summit of your ambition was to get a decent man to marry
was to get a decent man to marry you. And then after that, you’re
you. And then after that, you’re great honour
you. And then after that, you’re great honour and privilege was to,
great honour and privilege was to, like, he a
great honour and privilege was to, like, be a housewife and to look
like, he a housewife and to look after him.
like, be a housewife and to look after him. And we were like, well,
after him. And we were like, well, no, we don’t think we are
no, we don’t think we are second-class citizens, we don’t
second-class citizens, we don’t think we should be subordinate to
think we should be subordinate to men. We’re
think we should be subordinate to men. We’rejust going
think we should be subordinate to men. We’re just going to get out
men. We’re just going to get out there
men. We’re just going to get out there and absolutely changed
there and absolutely changed everything. So it was such a kind of
everything. So it was such a kind of time of transition and a feeling of
time of transition and a feeling of revolution, really. So the only
revolution, really. So the only problem was that we couldn’t do
problem was that we couldn’t do anything unless we could change
anything unless we could change politis. So
anything unless we could change politics. So it was likely a
politics. So it was likely a resistible force movement and the
resistible force movement and the immovable object of Parliament. --
immovable object of Parliament. -- irresistible. We had to batter our
irresistible. We had to batter our WY
irresistible. We had to batter our way in. Loads of things have changed
way in. Loads of things have changed over the last 30 years. |
way in. Loads of things have changed over the last 30 years. I do find it
over the last 30 years. I do find it extraordinary that still women are
extraordinary that still women are having to have a march, they feel
having to have a march, they feel that they have to protect those
that they have to protect those rights. Are you saddened that things
rights. Are you saddened that things haven’t moved further in those 30
haven’t moved further in those 30 years?
There are always people who want to turn the clock back, whether it is
turn the clock back, whether it is on tackling racism or homophobia,
on tackling racism or homophobia, there will always be people who want
there will always be people who want to seize the opportunity to turn the
to seize the opportunity to turn the dock
to seize the opportunity to turn the clock back to the 19505. You cannot
clock back to the 19505. You cannot really take those rights for
really take those rights for granted. We are at that moment now,
granted. We are at that moment now, it is not your fault,
granted. We are at that moment now, it is not yourfault, Annette, but
it is not your fault, Annette, but Tmmp is
it is not yourfault, Annette, but Trump is sending this virus across
Tmmp is sending this vims across that is
Trump is sending this virus across that is legitimising all those kinds
that is legitimising all those kinds of reactions. |
that is legitimising all those kinds of reactions. I apologise on behalf
of reactions. I apologise on behalf of my nation. I think we need her as
of my nation. I think we need her as President and you as Prime Minister.
President and you as Prime Minister. Have you ever thought of running for
Have you ever thought of mnning for office? I
Have you ever thought of running for office? l have not. Maybe once. Do
office? I have not. Maybe once. Do it again. In terms
office? l have not. Maybe once. Do it again. In terms of moving things
it again. In terms of moving things on, in terms of women, how
on, in terms of women, how disappointed are you that it is the
disappointed are you that it is the Conservatives who have rustled up
Conservatives who have msﬂed up two
Conservatives who have rustled up two female Prime Minister ‘5? This
two female Prime Minister ‘5? This has been a
two female Prime Minister ‘5? This has been a paradox and torture
has been a paradox and torture foreigners. The first female Prime
foreigners. The first female Prime Minister was Margaret Thatcher and
Minister was Margaret Thatcher and we did not feel that that was a good
we did not feel that that was a good thing to be celebrating, that
thing to be celebrating, that Margaret Thatcher was the Prime
Margaret Thatcher was the Prime Minister and we had to do lots of
Minister and we had to do lots of marching, saying that the first Lady
marching, saying that the first Lady puts women last and that was her and
puts women last and that was her and now we have another female Prime
now we have another female Prime Minister and once again, it is a
Minister and once again, it is a Tory. We have more Labour women MPs
Tory. We have more Labour women MP5 than any other
Tory. We have more Labour women MPs than any other party, but at the
than any other party, but at the very top level, |
than any other party, but at the very top level, l have that song in
very top level, I have that song in my head, it’s
very top level, l have that song in my head, it’s raining men and it
my head, it’s raining men and it feels like
my head, it’s raining men and it feels like that. Oh, I know that
feels like that. Oh, I know that song!
song! APPLAUSE.
when you write a book like this, is this you saying I’m
retiring, I’m out of here?
You know, Harman out.
Not at all.
Not at all actually and it is funny, because there is a thing
about women and your age.
It is like, when you are much younger, in politics,
it is like, oh, you know, young, pretty, 3 bit distracting,
a bit flaky not to be taken seriously whereas a young man
would be regarded as very thrusting with lots of promise for the future
and he is in his prime wheres the woman is a bit ditzy.
And when she is having herfamily and she has loads of children,
she is like, she’s just a write-off, whereas he is regarded
as he has got his family, reassuringly virile.
And then, when they are older, the man is like experienced, wise,
like George Clooney, attractive, silver fox type of thing
and the woman when she gets older, well she is just past it
and it is like, when is our prime?
APPLAUSE.
That got a big clap!
I’m going to be like, having my prime now.
Good for you!
Harriet Harman, well done!
IE
No mistaking, Asa Butterfield is in his prime. Your life is changing.
his prime. Your life is changing. This is the first time you did not
This is the first time you did not have to study during a film, there
have to study during a film, there were no chaperones. It was great! I
were no chaperones. It was great! I was living by myself, I was in
was living by myself, I was in Albuquerque,... Take it or leave it.
Albuquerque,... Take it or leave it. It was funny, we were making a film
It was funny, we were making a film and it was on Mars and Albuquerque
and it was on Mars and Albuquerque looked like that. We made the most
looked like that. We made the most of it. I
looked like that. We made the most of it. ldid
looked like that. We made the most of it. I did not have to have a
of it. I did not have to have a tutor, I
of it. I did not have to have a tutor, lwas
of it. I did not have to have a tutor, I was not in school, |
of it. I did not have to have a tutor, I was not in school, l was a
tutor, I was not in school, I was a real actor.
tutor, I was not in school, l was a real actor. You live in your own
real actor. You live in your own ﬁat now. I
real actor. You live in your own flat now. l have moved out of home,
ﬁat now. I have moved out of home, last year. That is
flat now. l have moved out of home, last year. That is cool. You’ve been
last year. That is cool. You’ve been in films
last year. That is cool. You’ve been in films since
last year. That is cool. You’ve been in films since you
last year. That is cool. You’ve been in films since you were eight years
in films since you were eight years old, ran you
in films since you were eight years old, can you cook? How do you know
old, ran you cook? How do you know how to do
old, can you cook? How do you know how to do anything? I can cook all
how to do anything? I ran cook all right. I
how to do anything? I ran cook all right. ldo
how to do anything? I ran cook all right. I do get an
how to do anything? I can cook all right. I do get an unfortunate
right. I do get an unfortunate amount of takeaway. |
right. I do get an unfortunate amount of takeaway. l have got this
amount of takeaway. I have got this great [oral
amount of takeaway. l have got this great local food shop opposite, I
great [oral food shop opposite, I ran get there
great local food shop opposite, I can get there in 30 seconds and get
ran get there in 30 seconds and get lots of
can get there in 30 seconds and get lots of frozen pizza and tuna and
lots offrozen pizza and tuna and beans,
lots of frozen pizza and tuna and beans, baked beans. Andrew would
beans, baked beans. Andrew would love that! l have become amazing
love that! I have become amazing cooking
love that! l have become amazing cooking beans on toast. Your first
cooking beans on toast. Your first film as an independent young man is
film as an independent young man is The Space Between Us. It opens next
The Space Between Us. It opens next Friday and here a
The Space Between US. It opens next Friday and here a taste of what to
Friday and here a taste of what to expect. My name is Gordon Riley and
expect. My name is Gordon Riley and I was born
expect. My name is Gordon Riley and l was born on Mars and |
expect. My name is Gordon Riley and l was born on Mars and I finally
I was born on Mars and I finally found a
l was born on Mars and I finally found a reason to go to air. I could
found a reason to go to air. I could just see her. His heart cannot
just see her. His heart cannot handle the gravity. It is too risky.
handle the gravity. It is too risky. It is worth it. You do not realise
It is worth it. You do not realise how far away you are until someone
how far away you are until someone you want to be near. He is running
you want to be near. He is mnning out of time.
you want to be near. He is running out of time. You have to go back.
out of time. You have to go back. What is your favourite thing about
What is your favourite thing about Earth? You.
APPLAUSE. They make a lot of these science-fiction movies, people
science-fiction movies, people living on Mars, but this is a really
living on Mars, but this is a really unusual take on it. Explain the germ
unusual take on it. Explain the germ of the idea and the romance. |t
unusual take on it. Explain the germ of the idea and the romance. It is a
of the idea and the romance. It is a science fiction film. It has this
science fiction film. It has this backdrop but I think what really
backdrop but I think what really drives it is the relationships and
drives it is the relationships and it is about this boy who has grown
it is about this boy who has grown "P
it is about this boy who has grown up on Mars and he has been totally
up on Mars and he has been totally isolated from just about anything.
isolated from just about anything. He
isolated from just about anything. Hean
isolated from just about anything. He an odd guy, he is kind of weird
He an odd guy, he is kind of weird and is smart, but I really had fun
and is smart, but I really had fun making the most of what made him
making the most of what made him different because he comes to earth
different because he comes to earth and he has not seen anything before,
and he has not seen anything before, like dogs, rats...
and he has not seen anything before, like dogs, cats... Literally
like dogs, rats... Literally anything is
like dogs, cats... Literally anything is interesting to him and
anything is interesting to him and he is like a cared in the body of a
he is like a cared in the body of a teenager. One of the big things is
teenager. One of the big things is gravity, because the gravity of
gravity, because the gravity of Maurice... |
gravity, because the gravity of Maurice... I sound like a scientist!
Maurice... I sound like a scientist! LAUGHTER. Earth is different,
LAUGHTER. Earth is different, writes?
One of the things we were playing with, to make him stand out and look
with, to make him stand out and look like an alien, is this change in
like an alien, is this change in gravity, Mars is 30% of the Earth’s
gravity, Mars is 30% of the Earth’s gravity and he feels heavier and we
gravity and he feels heavier and we wanted to give him this walk which
wanted to give him this walk which was a bit like Ministry Of Funny
was a bit like Ministry Of Funny Walks. I
was a bit like Ministry Of Funny Walks. | strapped weights to my
Walks. I strapped weights to my ankles
Walks. | strapped weights to my ankles and sandbags that l
Walks. | strapped weights to my ankles and sandbags that I could
ankles and sandbags that I could feel what it is like to be heavier
feel what it is like to be heavier and walk around. Yes, |
feel what it is like to be heavier and walk around. Yes, I had someone
and walk around. Yes, I had someone fill me while
and walk around. Yes, I had someone fill me whilel
and walk around. Yes, I had someone fill me while I was doing it and |
fill me while I was doing it and I could look at it and and really big
could look at it and and really big it funny. You do heavy running as
it funny. You do heavy mnning as well, not
it funny. You do heavy mnning as well, notjust
it funny. You do heavy running as well, notjust heavy walking. Heavy
well, not just heavy walking. Heavy jumping as
well, notjust heavy walking. Heavy jumping as well. Everything takes
jumping as well. Everything takes much more effort. Heavy clapping.
much more effort. Heavy clapping. That’s right.
much more effort. Heavy clapping. That’s right. Talking about
That’s right. Talking about preparing
That’s right. Talking about preparing for roles, you are in
preparing for roles, you are in another film at the moment,
preparing for roles, you are in anotherfilm at the moment, Silence
another film at the moment, Silence and you went to
anotherfilm at the moment, Silence and you went to Wales to prepare for
and you went to Wales to prepare for that. Yes, Wales. You are a monk in
that. Yes, Wales. You are a monk in the film. A jesuit
that. Yes, Wales. You are a monk in the film. AJesuit priest. Part of
the film. A jesuit priest. Part of that
the film. AJesuit priest. Part of that preparation was myself and add
that preparation was myself and add driver, we both played Jesuit
driver, we both played jesuit priests and
driver, we both played Jesuit priests and it is set in the 1600
priests and it is set in the 1600 where Christianity has been
where Christianity has been outlawed. It is an amazing film, a
outlawed. It is an amazing film, a Martin Scorsese film and getting to
Martin Scorsese film and getting to work with him, he has made something
work with him, he has made something quite profound. One of the things
quite profound. One of the things that we did, we went on a silent
that we did, we went on a silent retreat in Wales. It was a beautiful
retreat in Wales. It was a beautiful Christian retreat. |t
retreat in Wales. It was a beautiful Christian retreat. It is very
Christian retreat. It is very beautiful. I have not done the
beautiful. I have not done the retreat thing. Too early for that.
retreat thing. Too early for that. We had about eight days together in
We had about eight days together in silence, me and Adam. We had that
silence, me and Adam. We had that each other once in New York and we
each other once in New York and we had a drink and we met each other
had a drink and we met each other again in Wales for total silence for
again in Wales for total silence for seven days. Did you say hello when
seven days. Did you say hello when you went in? We would mime. Was
you went in? We would mime. Was there a lot of that? Yes. Really,
there a lot of that? Yes. Really, vow of silence, do you write notes?
vow of silence, do you write notes? You must speak at some point! You
You must speak at some point! You really don’t. Has
You must speak at some point! You really don’t. Has anyone ever done a
really don’t. Has anyone ever done a silent
really don’t. Has anyone ever done a silent retreat? One person! The cant
silent retreat? One person! The rant tell you about it!
silent retreat? One person! The cant tell you about it! |
silent retreat? One person! The cant tell you about it! I found it to be
tell you about it! I found it to be a beautiful experience. Gorgeous. |
a beautiful experience. Gorgeous. I very quickly got used to my own
very quickly got used to my own company and not having, it creates a
company and not having, it creates a real intimacy with yourself. What’s
real intimacy with yourself. What’s it like when you get out there? We
it like when you get out there? We lost our minds! This is the weird
lost our minds! This is the weird thing. We got into a car together
thing. We got into a rar together and we
thing. We got into a car together and we had a three hour car ride to
and we had a three hour rar ride to the airport
and we had a three hour car ride to the airport together and it was just
the airport together and it was just this torrent, this outpouring of the
this torrent, this outpouring of the most vile language and imagery... |t
most vile language and imagery... It was as if the devil had suddenly
was as if the devil had suddenly Web, where have you been for the
Web, where have you been for the last while, you bustards? It was the
last while, you bustards? It was the most vile, it was really scary.
most vile, it was really scary. Genuinely frightening. Giggling,
Genuinely frightening. Giggling, crying with laughter. Anyway, we
crying with laughter. Anyway, we ended up having the most disgusting,
ended up having the most disgusting, wonderful conversation. Very
wonderful conversation. Very quickly, we are about to have music
quickly, we are about to have music from Elbow and we have had speed
from Elbow and we have had speed clapping from Asa. |
from Elbow and we have had speed clapping from Asa. I cant believe I
clapping from Asa. I rant believe I am asking
clapping from Asa. I cant believe I am asking Annette Bening this, but
am asking Annette Bening this, but apparently your elbows are pretty
apparently your elbows are pretty loose? |t
apparently your elbows are pretty loose? It is true. |
apparently your elbows are pretty loose? It is true. l have a little
loose? It is tme. I have a little elbow
loose? It is true. l have a little elbow trick. Would you like to see
elbow trick. Would you like to see my elbow trek?
my elbow trek? APPLAUSE. May |
my elbow trek? APPLAUSE. May I hand you my
APPLAUSE. May I hand you my bracelet? This is serious. Everyone
bracelet? This is serious. Everyone gets to try this. What? Was that
gets to try this. What? Was that your elbow? He doesn’t want to try.
your elbow? He doesn’t want to try. Your hands go
your elbow? He doesn’t want to try. Your hands go backwards to begin
Your hands go backwards to begin with. Backwards to begin with. And
with. Backwards to begin with. And then you bring them underneath and
then you bring them underneath and then you open them up and you put
then you open them up and you put your head through. All my... Wow!
your head through. All my... Wow! APPLAUSE. |
your head through. All my... Wow! APPLAUSE. I could not do that. Can
APPLAUSE. I could not do that. than you do it? I can’t.
APPLAUSE. I could not do that. Can you do it? I can’t. Your
APPLAUSE. I could not do that. Can you do it? Ican’t. Your 19, you’re
you do it? I can’t. Your19, you’re made of
you do it? Ican’t. Your 19, you’re made of elastic! Well done. Very
made of elastic! Well done. Very good. I
made of elastic! Well done. Very good. ldon’t
made of elastic! Well done. Very good. I don’t know if that’s very
good. I don’t know if that’s very exciting, but
good. I don’t know if that’s very exciting, but there you have it. We
exciting, but there you have it. We enjoyed it.
Right, it’s time for music.
This award-winning British rock band are back with their seventh studio
album, Little Fictions.
Here performing Magnificent (She Says), please welcome Elbow!
APPLAUSE.
Elbow! Beautiful. Thank you so much. The violinists. Thank you. Here
The violinists. Thank you. Here girl.
The violinists. Thank you. Here girt. Sit
The violinists. Thank you. Here girl. Sit down, you look like you
girl. Sit down, you look like you have earned that. The rest of the
have earned that. The rest of the hand are
have earned that. The rest of the band are thinking they should have
band are thinking they should have come over now. |
band are thinking they should have come over now. I cant believe it.
come over now. I rant believe it. There was a
come over now. I cant believe it. There was a Guinness in it and they
There was a Guinness in it and they said no. That is from the album,
said no. That is from the album, Little Fictions which is out today.
Little Fictions which is out today. I have got it on
Little Fictions which is out today. l have got it on the vinyl. | get so
I have got it on the vinyl. I get so many of these
l have got it on the vinyl. | get so many of these now. |
l have got it on the vinyl. | get so many of these now. l was thinking
many of these now. I was thinking that I might
many of these now. l was thinking that I might buy a record player. |
thatl might buy a record player. I get so many of
that I might buy a record player. | get so many of them. Thank you very
get so many of them. Thank you very much. You are touring quite soon. We
much. You are touring quite soon. We are touring the UK throughout March.
are touring the UK throughout March. It starts in Dublin in February. And
It starts in Dublin in February. And then edit ends in the UK at the end
then edit ends in the UK at the end of March. Thank you for that. You
of March. Thank you for that. You will need about 28 pairs of pants.
will need about 28 pairs of pants. Thank you very much. Elbow.
Thank you very much. Elbow. Beautiful.
Right, that’s nearly it.
But before we go, just time fora visit to the big red chair.
who is there? Hello. Hi Graham. How tall are you? Six foot two. You
Who is there? Hello. Hi Graham. How tall are you? Six foot two. You look
tall are you? Six foot two. You look taller. What is your name? Kieron.
taller. What is your name? Kieron. Where are you from? That is a lovely
Where are you from? That is a lovely part of the world. Would you live? |
part of the world. Would you live? I live in
part of the world. Would you live? | live in London. |
part of the world. Would you live? | live in London. I do design. who did
live in London. I do design. who did that, Ciaran? What do you design?
that, Ciaran? What do you design? Shoelaces.
Shoelaces. LAUGHTER. One more. Let’s
Shoelaces. MUGHTER. One more. Let’s try one
MUGHTER. One more. Let’s try one more.
LAUGHTER. One more. Let’s try one more. Hello. Hello. It’s your
more. Hello. Hello. It’s your planet, it is all about the
planet, it is all about the Butterfield. You from, Brad?
Butterfield. You from, Brad? Seattle. Are you here on holiday? |
Seattle. Are you here on holiday? I am. What do you do in Seattle? |
am. What do you do in Seattle? I work in
am. What do you do in Seattle? | work in software, sales and
work in software, sales and marketing. Off you go with your
marketing. Off you go with your story. We were doing a global
story. We were doing a global product roll-out and |
story. We were doing a global product roll-out and l was doing
product roll-out and I was doing some training
product roll-out and l was doing some training in Reading and about
some training in Reading and about 60 people, men and women in the
60 people, men and women in the office there and |
60 people, men and women in the office there and I did some training
office there and I did some training for those folks and |
office there and I did some training for those folks and I led the
for those folks and I led the exercise. One group did a great
for those folks and I led the exercise. One group did a greatjob,
exercise. One group did a great job, a bunch of guys,
exercise. One group did a greatjob, a bunch of guys, who were British
a bunch of guys, who were British and I wanted to complement their
and I wanted to complement their presentation, so I said, boys, I
presentation, so I said, boys, I really like your spun. |
presentation, so I said, boys, I really like your spun. I got a big
really like your spun. I got a big laugh and I did not really know what
laugh and I did not really know what it was about. We all know that.
Well done, everyone.
If you’d like to join us on the show and have a go in the red chair,
you can contact us via our website at this address.
That’s it for tonight.
Please say thank you to my guests - Elbow, Asa Butterfield,
Harriet Harman, Annette Bening and Andrew Garfield.
Join me next week with musical guest Rag ‘n’ Bone Man,
Fifty Shades’ Jamie Dornan, Hollywood star Keanu Reeves,
Oscar winner Denzel Washington, and the one and only Whoopi
Goldberg.
Should be good.
I’ll see you then!
Goodnight.
ELECTRONIC DANCE MUSIC
(Whatever happens, stay close to me.)
ELECTRONIC DANCE MUSIC
SCREAM ECHOES
Trouble with the genre nowadays, too much murder, not enough mystery.
Insane!
Take a trip Inside No.9, the new series.
‘Southbridge Comprehensive. How can I help?‘ Hello. This is HerbertJones,
and | work for the Bone Marrow Registry
of England and Wales.
I am trying to get in contact with one of your former teachers,
a Miss...Melodie Thomas.
It seems that she may be a potential match for one of our patients.
‘Sorry, we can’t give out any personal information.‘
Oh. Well, that’s fine. I’m sure our patient will understand...
when they’re dead!
This programme contains some strong language
HE TAPS 0N KEYBOARD
What do you think would be
a nice present for your mum
when she finishes radiotherapy?
Hello? Veronica just asked you a que... Would you mind not using that
at the breakfast table?
Actually, I would. I’ve found an amazing deal for my Euro trip.
And it’s going to be gone in a couple of minutes unless we act now.
What Euro trip?
The one for my 16th birthday.
I’ve found a package that takes me to Barcelona, Rome, Athens, Istanbul, Munich
and Stockholm, home of the world’s largest lkea.
And it’s only £2,500.
Can I use your credit card? I already know the number. Definitely not.
What 16-year-old goes alone on a trip round Europe?
Malala won a Nobel prize when she was 16.
It was the Peace Prize. They give that to anyone.
If you don’t want me to go alone, I can always just ask Murray Thomas.
His crippling sleep apnoea has nearly cleared up now.
You get straight As in your GCSEs, then we’ll talk.
That’s not fair.
I’m bored of formal education. I’m trying to enrich myself.
If you feel that strongly about it, you’re old enough to get a job and pay for the trip yourself.
Ajob? You want ME to get a job?
Me? A rebel thinker?
Hands of a Victorian lady?
Do I look like I’m built for hard labour?